Incidents happen, and as a security
analyst, you'll likely be tasked with
investigating and responding to security
incidents at some point in your career.
Let's examine the Detection and Analysis
phase of the incident response lifecycle.
This is where incident response
teams verify and analyze incidents.
Detection enables the prompt
discovery of security events.
Remember not all events are incidents,
but all incidents are events.
Events are regular occurrences in business
operations, like visits to a website or
password reset requests.
IDS and SIEM tools collect and
analyze event data from different sources
to identify potential unusual activity.
If an incident is detected, such as
a malicious actor successfully gaining
unauthorized access to an account,
then an alert is sent out.
Security teams then begin
the Analysis phase.
Analysis involves the investigation and
validation of alerts.
During the analysis process, analysts
must apply their critical thinking and
incident analysis skills to
investigate and validate alerts.
They'll examine indicators of compromise
to determine if an incident has occurred.
This can be a challenge for
a couple of reasons.
The challenge with detection is it's
impossible to detect everything.
Even great detection tools have
limitations in how they work, and automated
tools may not be fully deployed across
an organization due to limited resources.
Some incidents are unavoidable,
which is why it's important for
organizations to have an incident
response plan in place.
Analysts often receive a high
volume of alerts per shift,
sometimes even thousands.
Most of the time, high alert volumes are
caused by misconfigured alert settings.
For example, alert rules
that are too broad and
not tuned to an organization's
environment create false positives.
Other times, high alert volumes
can be legitimate alerts caused
by malicious actors taking advantage
of a newly discovered vulnerability.
As a security analyst, it's important that
you're equipped to effectively analyze
alerts and coming up, you'll do just that.